HEATMAP (#1535)
hackclub/hackclub: workshops/HEATMAP/README.md

---

> name: 'Make your own Heat map'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
name: 'Make Your Own Heat Map'
```

standard capitalisation

> description: 'Data visualization with Sea born'

Reviewer: Hmm could we make this sound more professional?

author: '@shivesh01'
---

# Heat Map

![Slideshow](https://cloud-49dp118l9.vercel.app/0slidshow.gif)

> We use data everywhere. Your smartphone for instance, or the satellite navigation system in your car; maybe the car itself, what not? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use data everywhere. Your smartphone for instance, and the satellite navigation system in your car are a couple of examples.
```

Data that we share among ourselves mostly is visual data which may be text, audio, video or graphs. Which is essential for us to continue discovering new things and keep ourselves connected. 
Visual data such as graphs plays an important role in understanding complex data and even helps us to remember for a lit longer. Graphs can be of many kinds but we are here to learn about heat maps and even make them while learning.

> [Click here to see working HEATMAP DEMO on repl](https://repl.it/@ShiveshSingh/Heatmap#main.py)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Click here to see a working demo of today's project](https://repl.it/@ShiveshSingh/Heatmap#main.py)
```

> # Index

Reviewer: let's remove this, not much point imo

* Introduction

* Steps 
  - Step Zero: Importing libraries
  - Step One: Plotting Scatterplot
  - Step Two: Relp Plot
  - Step Three: Violin plot
  - Step Four: Pair Grid
  - Step Five: Heat map
* Application

* Resources for datasets

* Hacking

# Introduction 

> In this workshop, you will be using the python language and its libraries to create a stunning heatmap from scratch. Even if you don't know the python language no worries this tutorial will guide you and keep you interested. Most importantly you will learn about heatmap. let's talk about what is a heat map? and how to make one like data scientists do!🤗.

Reviewer: Capitalise Python

> In this workshop, you will be using the python language and its libraries to create a stunning heatmap from scratch. Even if you don't know the python language no worries this tutorial will guide you and keep you interested. Most importantly you will learn about heatmap. let's talk about what is a heat map? and how to make one like data scientists do!🤗.

Reviewer: Punctuation at the end is also wrong

> The heat maps are graphical representation of data where values are represented by shades of color. Heat maps make it easy to visualize complex data and understand it at a glance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The heat maps are graphical representation of data where values are represented by shades of color. Heat maps make it easy to visualize complex data and understand it at a glance.
```

> Even you can visualize the data, your data too!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> > One step at a time is all it takes to get you there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Getting started

> You just need to set up an account on repl. you can run this program on your Python idle too. Idle like Pycharm, Atom, Jupyter notebook and Visual studio e.t.c. Some basic knowledge is required for the programming and you are ready to go. I have designed this workshop sweet and simple for you. It will just take 15-20 minutes to complete the workshop.

Reviewer: Capitals at the start of every sentence, also awkward phrasing here

Ready, Get set & Go! 

## Step zero!

> ### Setting up an account on repl

Reviewer: Combine these two titles

- Go to the repl website and sign up 

> [Repl website](https://repl.it/signup) and create a repl

Reviewer: make this flow better

*First we need to import two libraries namely seaborn and matplotlib to repl for that we just need to type the below command in the main.py file
we have used two shortcuts ```sns``` represents seaborn and ```plt``` represents matplotlib*
```python 

import seaborn as sns
import matplotlib. pyplot as plt

```
*We know that for plotting graph we need to add data . We can store them in a list or array but here we use list variables namely **height** and **weight** to store the any values to plotted.*
```python
height = [62, 64, 69, 75, 66, 68, 65, 71, 76, 73]
weight = [120, 136, 148, 175, 137, 165, 154, 172, 200, 187]
```
*Now we can plot & label the graph with graph-type and label what you want to put on the **x** and **y** axis in the graph. Here we will be going with scatterplot as graph-type and x label as height and y label as weight.*
```python
sns.scatterplot(x=height, y=weight)
```
*Finally display the graph we will use*

```python
plt.show()
```
**Output**
![Scatter plot](https://cloud-ikhasazgz.vercel.app/3scatter_plot.png )
Fantastic! You have created your first plot🥳

# Step 2. Relplot

> 

Reviewer: make this section flow better

```python
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns
```
*Here, we need one extra step because we are going to download a flight's data-sets. Download the dataset and put it in your repl folder in which we are working and rename it as* ```flights```. * and let's put this in a variable. so, we can write this variable letter as shown below.*
```python 
flights = sns.load_dataset("flights")
```
*Relp-plot is one minimalist plot I have discovered and I know you will like it too. Here we will be using relp graph plot with the label as ``` x-axis as passengers```,```labeling y-axis as month```,``` hue represents as color appearance parameters``` & we need to load the data-set for that we have already created a variable `` `flights ``` and we use them as data = flights.*
```python
sns.relplot(x="passengers", y="month", hue="year", data=flights)
``` 
*As usual displaying the graph, we will be using this function.* 
```python 
plt.show() 
```
Wow! You have created your relp plot 🥳👏🏻
**Output**
![Relplot](https://cloud-ikhasazgz.vercel.app/2relp_plot.png)

# Step 3. Violin Plot

> *A Violin Plot is used to visualize the distribution of the data and its probability density.  Show the distribution shape of the data.*

Reviewer: awkward phrasing

```python
flights = sns.load_dataset("flights")
``` 
*Now, we will use pivot to handle duplicate values for one index/column pair and label the ```x-axis``` as months, ```y-axis``` as the year, and ```passengers``` will represent the intensity of the heat map. For simplicity we use this convention more the number of passengers increases in the intensity of the color.*
```python

flights = flights.pivot("month", "year", "passengers")
``` 

*Third variable, Now we will enhance look and fill to the plot by using some more parameters like annot, fmt, linewidth, and cmap.*
*some technical terms we are going to use such as annot: the value will show on each cell of the heatmap, fmt: adding annotations, linewidth: width between each box, cmap: cmap is a color template that we have used.*

```python
ax = sns.heatmap(flights, annot=True, fmt="d", linewidths=5, cmap="YlGnBu")
```
* As usual, displaying the graph, we will be using this*
```python
plt.show()
```
**Output**
![Heatmap](https://cloud-ikhasazgz.vercel.app/0heatmap.png)

### Marvelous! You have created your Heat map plot ###

# voilà!

**Congratulations!✌️ you have completed the workshop. Share it with your friends and family.

> Frankly share with everyone🤗✌️🥳👏🏅🌇🎊**

Reviewer: frankly is a weird word to use here

**You can create a lot of variety of heat maps as I have created below.** 
![flight heat map](https://cloud-tgw4nss32.vercel.app/0heatmap_2.png)

```python

import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns
import numpy as np

flights = sns.load_dataset("flights")
flights = flights.pivot("month", "year", "passengers")
corr = np.corrcoef(np.random.randn(10, 200))
mask = np.zeros_like(corr)
mask[np.triu_indices_from(mask)] = True
with sns.axes_style("white"):
f, ax = plt.subplots(figsize=(7, 5))
ax = sns.heatmap(corr, mask=mask, vmax=.3, square=True)
plt.show()
```

![flight heatmap staircase](https://cloud-tgw4nss32.vercel.app/1heatmap_4.png)
Data-set required named [flights](https://cloud-5jao3dtbu.vercel.app/0flights.csv "click to download")

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns
import numpy as np

flights = sns.load_dataset("flights")
flights = flights.pivot("month", "year", "passengers")
grid_kws = {"height_ratios": (.9, .05), "hspace": .3}
f, (ax, cbar_ax) = plt.subplots(2, gridspec_kw=grid_kws)
ax = sns.heatmap(flights, ax=ax,
cbar_ax=cbar_ax,
cbar_kws={"orientation": "horizontal"})
plt.show()
```

> # Keep Hacking!

Reviewer: need three demos and code links
